Demographics - As demographics, we considered four static features: gender 
(male/female), race/ethnicity (white/black/asian/native american/others/unknown), age at 
time of observation, smoking habit (yes/no) and coded them as categorical variables (age 
binned into 10 groups). In case of change in smoking status, we only considered the 
current observation and coded as ‘Smoking’/‘Non-smoking’. 
Vitals - We considered only the primary vital signs of the patient which includes systolic 
and diastolic blood pressure, height, weight, body mass index (BMI), temperature, 
respiration rate, pulse oximetry (spO2), and heart rate. For both internal and external 
datasets, the primary vitals are recorded using the LOINC standard coding system1
. In 
order to capture temporality, we measured the sensitivity to change in primary vitals within 
a 30 day window by computing derivatives of each vital sign along the temporal axis 
where first value is the normal range of the targeted vital. The derivative of a vital can be 
represented as ௗ௒ௗ௧where ܻൌ݂ሺܺሻ,ܺ ൌ ݔே , ݔଵ , ݔଶ ,…..ݔ௧ is a measure of the ݔ	vital over 
time ݐ and ݔ ே is normal range of the targeted vital. Given that majority of the targeted 
population are adults (with mean age: Stanford 60.53 and Duke 70.2), as normal range ݔே
we considered vital signs against normal values if prior baseline vitals were not available. 
Inpatient and Outpatient medication - The inpatient and outpatient drug formulary and 
vocabularies were mapped to a 2016 version of RxNorm2
. Prescription orders were 
distilled to the Pharmacologic class labels which active moieties that share scientifically 
documented properties is defined on the basis of any combination of three attributes: 
Mechanism of Action (MOA), Physiologic Effect (PE), and Chemical Structure (CS), that 
the FDA has determined to be scientifically valid and clinically meaningful. For drug 
feature engineering, we considered a 12 month window and identified 641 unique 
Pharmacologic class of drugs given to the training set SHC patients (inpatient and 
outpatient). Afterwards, we coded the medication usage as two numeric representations 
as: (1) presence/absence of the medication which is a binary value that captures if 
medication from a particular Pharmacologic class given to the patient within the 12 month 
window; (2) frequency of the medication as a numeric value to captures how many times 
the particular medication was repeated within 12 months. 
Diagnosis code - Diagnosis codes considered were ICD-9 format (codes with less than 1% 
occurrences in the training set were excluded). In order to limit the learning space, the 
diagnosis codes were collapsed to the top diagnosis categories using the the International 
Classification of Diseases, Version 9. Expansion to subcategories was performed with 
review of ICD9 taxonomy such that in total 141 unique diagnosis groupings (see 
Supplement Table 1) were generated for each group as a binary variable representing the 
presence/absence of a particular diagnosis within the 12 month window. For ensuring no 
data leakage, we dropped all ICD-9 codes recorded from the same encounter 
(hospitalization and ED visit) as of the CT exam from our analysis.